and welcome back to a fresh episode of
business
growth show i'm your host sam dunning
co-owner over at webchoiceuk.com
and today i'm joined by ravi rajani ravi
helps elite consultants
craft and deliver their signature story
in a way that connects
and that converts ravi a very warm
welcome to the show sir how you doing
what's up brother i like the intro it's
like i wrote it for you or something
yeah
as i said to you before backstage in
that green room as we'd say
it's nice to chill with somebody from
the uk i feel like
my linkedin network is 99 u.s so it's
good to speak to somebody who's in the
same time zone mate
yeah yeah yeah man i know the feeling
for some reason on linkedin i think a
lot of my connections as well
are from the us so i yeah i get let's
get the same feeling it's always good to
have some some uk guests on the show
so with that we're gonna be talking all
about the five
key ingredients to a presentation that
converts and i want to jump straight in
ravi was
with why does it why does it really
matter how we present
um this is a bit of a teed up question
but why does it matter how good or how
bad we are when it comes to
presentations
well i suppose like take yourself an
entrepreneur
you can outsource video editing you can
outsource the post-production of your
podcasts
legals i suck at that um you know i suck
at so many different things technology
but you know what you
can't outsource is how you speak
present and pitch your business so it's
the difference literally my eyes
between success and failure however you
put it if you're
raising money for charity if you are
launching a new product
if you're writing copy for your website
which you know so much about
how you present yourself your mission
and your expertise through story is
literally a game changer you you know
it's better than anybody how many times
have we heard
okay so my product does this and then
the
the feature to this and then this is
that you know people people often don't
care about that
actually not often they don't care about
that and the 1984 presentation from
steve jobs when he released the
macintosh shows that man he introduced a
villain through storytelling
then showcased the solution the crowd
loved it so
story wins dude story wins yeah yeah and
why do you think that is why do you
think
stories are so powerful ravi when it
comes to
kind of putting across an effective
presentation i think stories stick
they're just very very sticky you know
if our
example my little cousin my aunt came to
me a couple of years ago
and she was like rav can you get alicia
to brush her teeth please because
i keep telling her over and over again
to brush her teeth but she just won't do
it so i was like at least you come here
for a sec
i went and sat down and i was like what
are you doing she's like just watching
tv
and i was like okay so you thought about
brushing your teeth she's like no
and i was like oh man i remember one of
my friends
cousins she didn't brush her teeth for
four days and
i couldn't believe it but her teeth fell
out but it's okay like now she just has
no teeth and she goes to school but
people still love her it's not a big
deal she was like what say that again
hold up she's like within two minutes
she's upstairs brushing their teeth so
if you think about it people don't like
to be told
no do this but present a good story
and we're moved by it's why hollywood is
a billion or trillion dollar industry
yeah yeah that that makes sense i mean
is it because
do you think it's kind of psychological
because like you say if someone just
tells me straight and
i'm in your case like you've just shared
with us there you're trying to convince
a child to do something but
i've never been like particularly being
told exactly what to do but when you
reference someone
in your case you basically talk about a
story where someone went through the
same situation and this is what happened
to them
and we want to avoid that or we want to
make something better is it just because
we kind of feel that reference we kind
of feel
oh well they've done this or we're
missing out on this and it just kind of
clicks something in our brain or
well i suppose imagine imagine if i said
this to you and i actually saw an
adverb on youtube you like must have
been about two weeks ago
and it did say exactly this it was like
do you have
stained teeth are you feeling like
you want a white smile well doll oh 800.
now that's interesting because that
immediately when i said that i can
guarantee your shoulders went up and you
were like oh man i'm about to be pitched
i'm about to be pitch slapped right so
the interesting thing is is our barriers
already go up but if i go oh man sam
during that time uh november 2018 when
you and i are at conference in singapore
you're like oh a story is coming so it's
so
so interesting i think you're 100
correct around the psychology
of immediately what happens to our mind
you know mentally and our body
physically when we feel
like we're being sold to it on linkedin
dude you know that it's a
it's a big problem right so i know
there's so much science behind this as
well
so much science behind it there's a book
called by mike adams called
uh the seven stories that every
salesperson
should tell or must tell and it's really
he goes
into you know the different the
different ways
that our brain processes story etc he
does a whole whole chapter on it
super super interesting but there's
science behind it but then also the
logic will tell us
man who likes to be pitched to nobody
the moment you feel that
your guard goes up right and i really
want to get into these five ingredients
but just before we do
yeah i want to know your thoughts ravi
on why so many presentations suck
because i can say this as a business
owner as a co-owner yeah i've had to sit
through
demos presentations so many times and
i'm sure i've given shite ones in my
past
i'm sure some people still think some of
mine are yeah all of us right with that
said why are so many a snooze fest why
does so many feel like you're just kind
of getting pitched out you're getting
talked about people are literally
reading text off slides
there's no real engagement there's no
real kind of question building rapport
building so what why does so why are so
many terrible
bro how long you got well after the
short question
so there's a few key things now
let's talk about personality for a sec
think about somebody who's a part of a
company and they get told they have to
you know deliver a presentation they're
representing somebody
they can often feel
that they can't showcase who they really
are if they
say a specific joke if they showcase
their personality if they actually
showcase humor
will it get slammed will they have fear
of judgment you know there's all of
these different things so what ends up
happening is
instead of saying yo you know what
i'm j i genuinely wasn't excited this
morning to speak to you guys today
because i was actually nervous
people don't say that they go i'd just
like to thank you for your time today i
really appreciate no you don't no one
cares don't don't
like you know what i mean it's like we
say things we don't really mean because
we feel like we have to and it ends up
coming across like corporate jargon so
a quick solution for that is talking to
the audience
as if they're with you around the dinner
table
right and it's having the sprinkling in
that conversational language like salt
bay right just sprinkling in
a bit of conversational language that's
part one part two i would say
is they're very very predictable
highly highly highly predictable the
audience sit down in their seat and
within 30 seconds
they know how the remaining 30 minutes
are gonna go
and the problem is is because the
presenter can't be what they can't see
so if they've seen 100 presentations
before delivered by
ceos of big investment banks or you know
startups in silicon valley all done the
same way they think that is the right
thing to do so it's very interesting who
you look up to
and who you model because that will
actually showcase how you present or i
suppose display
how you are as a presenter the final
thing as well is
there is little to no storytelling or
inauthentic storytelling because people
are scared
to being for being vulnerable which goes
back to my original point about
personality
audience can't relate an audience can't
relate to perfection if i if i fumble my
words just now
people will say oh my god i messed up
and actually
that's an opportunity for connection
with your audience because it showcases
that you're human
so use those mess-ups as an opportunity
to build connection
yeah i'd like to say that many do just
seem robotic
and it's rare where people will just
kind of say look
i'm feeling a little bit nervous today
so i might be a bit shaky here and there
so bear with me and people would be like
it's not like people on the other end
unless they're an absolute idiot they're
going to receive that fine right they're
going to say well that's fine we
understand we've all been there
we uh we know where you're coming from
thanks for letting us know
um so yeah that's that's a nice point
ravi so
let's uh let's focus on how we can how
we can make a killer presentation
yeah i'd love you to walk us through the
the five steps you've got for us today
yeah man so i like to take it back to
a specific framework that i teach
now this framework is called the truth
framework why truth because think about
presentations especially delivered by
entrepreneurs
who are pitching you know have the goal
of ultimately
pitching their products services
whatever it might be
moving the audience through to the next
stage of the sales process to have them
take action they feel like man
this feels sleazy this doesn't feel
truthful this doesn't
feel honest so yeah true framework is
pretty simple there's
five key ingredients which go
into delivering a presentation that
converts so
ingredient number one is t which is
transform attention
into connection so here's the thing sam
think about it bro if i'm delivering a
presentation and you're in the audience
in person you're obeying audience
etiquette meaning if your son is sitting
next to you i know he's one but just
imagine if he's like five years old he's
sitting in the audience next year he's
like
dad can i get some sweet you're like hey
ravi's speaking
man calm down for a sec but what about
online
you're you know you're browsing tesco
shop you're thinking about what you've
got to get the kids for their birthday
you've got to buy
the wife some flowers are you banging
audience etiquette
no what is audience etiquette you could
switch off the webcam immediately so
you need to get somebody's attention and
we're talking about virtually here
because it's the world that we're in
virtually okay
sure so how to get somebody's attention
is by stacking the energy and what i
mean by that is think about kevin hart i
love kevin hart okay so he goes out on
stage he's like hey what's going on
canada the crowd like whoo
how my people in london doing they're
all going crazy
and what he's doing there is he's
building audience participation
he's building momentum so you want to do
the same
in a virtual setting to get people's
attention
because i can't teach you something if i
don't have your attention and how you do
that
is through using the chat function now
there's a specific process
which you can use to gather people's
attention
but i don't want to bore you too much
with that today but ultimately you want
to use a chat function
to stack the energy then once you've got
people's attention
then you can use a story to transform
that
into a connection in person
yes you can start with story like the
gurus will say
right start with story yes but in a
virtual setting i need somebody's
attention first
once i've got it i need to keep it can
you give us a quick
perhaps actual takeaway of how we can
get the attention when you say the chat
function what do you mean ravi there for
anyone that's
that's a bit unsure what that means
exactly good question so
imagine we're in zoom okay now what you
want to do is ask three very specific
questions
question number one needs to be a low
paying threshold question
why because if i ask you straight up
front sam what's the biggest problem
you're struggling with speaking
and converting you're gonna be like who
are you bro like
sorry mate like i don't know who you are
ask a question
which is highly highly highly engaging
and
makes people want to move forward
to the chat function and say hey i did
this this weekend or
oh my god yes i'm watching the euros do
you see england whatever it could be
ask a low paying threshold question to
get people to opt forward
in the chat function okay that's that's
one
question one question two okay is a
medium pain threshold
and it's got to be quantitative so on a
scale of 110
how important do you believe
storytelling is for the health of your
business in 2021
why am i doing that is because i want a
quantitative kpi
to then measure at the end of my
presentation because it's all about
impact if somebody's if you're at a four
sam
and then by the end you're at an eight
job done i know i've created impact
so make it quantitative then the third
question
is high paying threshold sam if there is
one specific challenge
that is costing you six figures five
figures seven
figures whatever it is a year every time
you present what would you say that
specific challenge is
now i've got a higher probability of
people telling me their big challenge
because
they've already seen other people in the
chat put their hand forward they've
already been typing themselves in the
chat
they want to and by me saying oh my god
sam dude
that's super interesting and then giving
you the stage to share that challenge
i'm no longer trying to be the hero you
become the hero
then i can move through the story this
is great i mean this this is really
effective for
sales calls i'm sure because you're
engaging the audience straight away as
you mentioned and you're also
understanding kind of what they want to
get out of it by the end of the video
cool by the end of the presentation
so you've they're literally giving you
the answers that you need to
cover during the duration of the
presentation and if you can get those
now then
you're probably on on your way to
getting your deal done
cool all right so commanding attention
what comes next sir
so once i've got the attention still in
the t
part of the truth framework i need to
tell a story
to really develop a connection
okay because you and i both know this in
the world that we live in somebody sees
your podcast they hear your story and
they're like oh my god i
only want sam to solve my problem i
don't want anyone else to do it
there's hundreds of other people just
like you and me but why us well there's
two reasons right
our story into our proprietary process
which
we can go through later so share a story
now a lot of people here's a tip a lot
of people will say
well i don't have a story to tell
or i don't know how to craft it or um i
haven't sold my business for a billion
dollars i haven't ipod yet so i'm not
ready to share
a story just yet here's the thing to
think about
speaking coach pat quinn talks about
this and i love it and he says look your
stories
need to be both extra and ordinary
ordinary meaning
sam genuinely true sorry my fiancee has
a go at me
probably three times a week for after i
put my clothes in the washing machine
i literally leave them wet and they
don't go in the dryer in the garage and
it becomes this cycle where
the same same clothes are going to the
wash every single day now if i share
that story you're like oh man
this this dude's human right he's like
but i also
very relatable yeah exactly exactly
right
you even do it or you're telling
somebody you're for it so exactly
there's a relatable piece but you also
want to be seen as somebody of value so
then
sam in the audience goes man i want to
hire ravi because this dude has some
expertise that i could learn from
so you also need to be seen as somebody
of value okay showcasing your mission
and expertise but here's the problem
people struggle with the mount everest
effect meaning
okay what have i done that's amazing
when people think of crafting their
story they go okay i played the piano
with eight was uh you know
grade 10 and then i did this and i did
that people can't relate to that people
can't relate to
the the ferrari or the ipo in their
business or whatever it could be
climbing mount everest how many people
have actually done that
you know so you need to include both a
human element to be ordinary but also
extra so you can be extraordinary
got it and that makes sense and does it
need to
ravi does this story that we tell need
to link into what's to come
in our presentation itself or can it be
completely different can it be
in your example uh annoying your fiance
by by leaving your clothes in the wash
which i'm sure i do more more times than
i wish to tell
um or has it got to be directly linked
to what we're about to talk about in our
demo our presentation whatever it may be
it depends on the purpose you know this
is a it's a really hard question to
answer because it depends on the purpose
of your presentation
you know why are you delivering it who
is the one person you're speaking to
what is the problem you're trying to
solve so there's so many different ways
to look at it
um i suppose i would look at it
in a generic sense from who
is the one person that i'm trying to
speak to today and what do they
specifically need to feel
and hear from an emotional and logical
perspective yeah then
to take action at the end of my
presentation action could mean anything
right so i would say it's not about what
you know a lot of people use their
story to make them look cool but
actually their story is designed to give
somebody else significance and make them
feel heard and understood so
when you pivot and think well what do
they need to hear
what is significant in my story which
will give them permission
it becomes interesting now to also give
you a bit more
depth to that people will say well at
the end of my presentation
i'm gonna pitch my lead magnet or my
book so i need to tell a story about
the struggles i had with writing my book
well yeah
not necessarily because that's arguably
predictable but
if you want somebody to feel a lack of
overwhelm because your book can actually
help solve that problem
you may tell a story about hiring a
personal trainer because you put on a
ton of weight in lockdown you felt
overwhelmed you
felt complete like a former version of
yourself right
and how hiring a mentor allowed you
to kick-start your journey and take
yourself to the next level that makes
them
feel a lack of overwhelm and also helps
them understand they need support on
their journey then when it comes to the
end you see what i mean there's a link
there but it's not predictable
yeah yeah yeah so not not just some kind
of simple link but
going a bit deeper i guess okay yeah got
it
gotcha okay so attention capture their
attention tell the story
you got it that's the first part yes
what comes next
ah of the truth framework which is
reveal the villain so you and i spoke
about this a little bit at the beginning
but
people the truth is people don't care as
much as we care
about our products and services whatever
it could be
now how do we make them care that's the
hard thing
how do we make them care nobody cares
about this new widget nobody cares
about this call it you know i've seen
you talk about this all the time when
people write copy on their websites like
the hard truth is nobody cares man like
let's just be real people only care
about you know how they can solve their
problems so
one interesting thing to think about is
revealing
the villain which is a common enemy
that people can get behind before
before you reveal your solution now i'll
give you an example think about
monzo dude in our world monzo
transferwise
what did they do when they first came
out the villain was who
hsbc barclays rbs
citibank these big big people who made
you feel that you weren't human who are
ripping you off
they created a villain and they said oh
hi by the way
you know you could deal with us right so
create a villain
that can aggravate the pain in an
ethical way keyword right ethically
and also that some something that
somebody can get behind that's doing
three things
how is it draining their time
how is it creating a lack of energy
and how is it losing them financial
resources
time money and energy because those are
three things that people care about
yep yep that makes sense any tips on how
to find the villain
that might be relevant to you or perhaps
you could share your own way of doing it
and i know
i could perhaps share share mine um to
give some context for the audience so
yeah one thing that pisses me off a lot
is
we're web choice we're in the digital
marketing game so we typically do
websites and seo but
with that said i i'm often rambling on
about that i fact
that i don't particularly like a lot of
seo companies because
they try and um make seo search end
optimization seem like a dark art like
black magic like witchcraft
and try and bamboozle you with a bunch
of jargon confusing technology phrases
um and just basically confuse you into
into buying which customers have told us
about before before
so we simply say look we're going to put
it in layman's terms
and we're gonna take the time to
understand your business and
see if it makes sense for us to to help
you if it doesn't that's fine but if
if we can we'll make it as clear as
possible we'll take the time to
understand what you want to get out of
it
and um and go from there really so that
i suppose that's one of our villains in
one in one situation do you find that
you tend to use the same for yourself or
your customers yeah i mean i'll give you
a quick
process to think about um for the for
the listeners to actually go through
which is
once we've actually you know understood
who we're speaking to which by the way
happens way before the truth framework
you know understanding who you're
speaking to that's a completely
different uh podcast episode but
for for example this piece once we
understood who was speaking to and
what are the problems that are keeping
them up at night they may have 10
problems
okay that your decision maker is
struggling with but sam you know that if
somebody's struggling with
um getting their opt-in form
to pop up is that a million dollar
problem
probably not but somebody who is
struggling
with getting traction or visitors to hit
their landing page
and then there's a lack of conversion
for people opting into the lead magnet
now that is a million dollar problem so
think about what
is the big problem that if you kept
asking yourself so what so meaning for
example i could say oh a problem is
that if you can't speak with uh if you
can't
present an effective story you're gonna
lose business so what
well then if you lose business you can't
pay your employees so what well then you
can't grow
so what okay is that a million dollar
problem yeah it is okay
so think about the million dollar
problem that you can solve
for five figures that's the way you've
got to think about it so it becomes a
no-brainer so
how big is that problem and then pick
one
pick one don't pick five many people
will pick five and everyone's like whoa
uh what am i focusing on pick one
nice nice and um yeah i think we've had
some guests that have kind of used a
similar framework but for
your marketing and um one way i think it
was
a guy called louis grenier and he
basically what he described was um kind
of using the problem that customers
consistently come to you with
so if if you're or if you don't know if
you're a business owner if you've got a
sales team
speak to your sales team and basically
they can give you this fuel because
they're getting literally the problems
that customers
need fixed each and every week and if
you find that there's one you hear more
than others we'll
use that as your villain use that as
your main juicy problem and
you've got the answer there so that's
that's a great framework ravi really
like that
um and then do we then move that forward
do we then
once we've kind of talked about the
villain do we then kind of say look this
is how we fix it or is there something
that comes before us
step three yeah so the interesting thing
is is once you've
moved through and really understood the
villain and really presented the villain
effectively and people are aware that
they have a problem because
people need to be aware that they've got
a problem if they don't believe they've
got a problem you've got nothing to
solve right
so then we go to you inside of the truth
framework which is
unleashing your unique mechanism
now think about this dude like you
you'll get this better than anybody
think about in a sea of thousands of
different consultants like me
thousands of different business owners
just like you
imagine if you had a thousand of me who
say hey
you know i can help you as a consultant
as an entrepreneur i can help
you craft and deliver your signature
story on any platform in the world in a
way that connects and converts
okay great cool but then i tell you well
actually
using my proprietary process of x
y z whatever it could be now i'm no
longer competing on price
now people are buying into an outcome
now i've got a usp to take people from
pain to glory so once i understand what
is causing them pain
and i understand where they want to be
in 12 months the question is is
how big is that gap as keenan would say
from gap selling
right right very very good book dude
amazing book
such a cool book love it um i digress
and then what we do is we say well here
is my
unique solution to help you
solve that problem now
that's very different to a thousand
people saying hey you know i can help
you increase your sales by 25
yeah cool how many sales consultants are
there right how many sales consultants
are
i'll reference a friend richard harris
you know he has a specific system called
the neat
selling system that's his vehicle
so what is yours now you're probably
thinking if you're listening and if
you're watching me you can see i'm
sweating over here man
it is so hot bro it is warm in the uk
today
um so here's a few steps to think about
how to create your unique mechanism step
one is is
if i put a gun to your head sam right
and i've loaded it i'm like dude if you
only had to choose three to five steps
maximum that your ideal client could
take
to solve their problem with you helping
them what would it be
three to five steps only right so people
normally go oh man but there's like
no there's 50 different steps here yeah
but high level
three to five steps what would they be
and then write them out okay let's say
if you're a um
i.t consultant you know there's an
initial audit where you get to uncover
xyz
and then you do this and then you do
that then you get your end result
now take for example those three to five
steps
and take the first letter
for example of that line so let's say
conduct an initial audit is the first
step and let's say well let's not
not even let's say the the first letter
of that sentence is
c so that is step one of your framework
it's c
and then step two let's say it begins
with a step three let's say it begins
with
uh ca uh n so it becomes the can
framework whatever it could be right so
taking the first letter of each of those
lines
and then the second word could be
methodology
framework process whatever aligns with
you
so for example the truth methodology to
give you a live example is
transform attention into connection
unleash your
um sorry reveal the villain unleash your
unique mechanism
tell stories that handle objections and
have a contextual call to action
and that is the process that you can use
to design presentations that convert so
those are the five steps and they
actually form a word now you can play
around with it
to see how it forms a word and then you
supplement it with the word framework or
solution at the end
is that see the the process makes sense
and it's the fact that we're naming it
something
we want it to be memorable so it's not
just saying like you said ravi look
in my case we're the best web designer
seo company in your case you're the best
um
speaker or consultant um and then
whatever our
in listeners watches industries are is
it then
placing someone that says look this is
how we're going to walk you through it
take you from
where you are now to where you want to
get to and this is the name of it so it
sticks in their minds
is is that the thought behind it yeah i
you bang on man i think it's three
things it's one it's a differentiation
factor
two people love frameworks okay because
they need to reduce
overwhelm in my head everything is a
framework when from the moment you get
up what is the first five
things you do consistently that's a
framework so people love
systems and they love frameworks because
especially as entrepreneurs
you want to have specific systems and
frameworks to reduce
overwhelm and get to an end result and
this allows you to do that in a seamless
way
finally what's important as well is you
end up going from
finger in the air approach to this
individual
knows actually how to take somebody from
a
to z and also allows you as an
entrepreneur to start
thinking well actually how can i
systematize this into a program
great okay now i can create systems
around it i can do
you know the story you can create
effective systems around your offer and
take people through a specific process
if you're a doctor and somebody says
okay i want you to do uh
this and then actually maybe you could
do that no no actually i had a client
that did this
dude just take this pill you're like
okay
yeah i'm gonna prescribe this one
solution it's a specific framework these
five steps i'm going to do x
y z this will help you achieve y you're
gonna be like uh
okay you know they they do really feel
like an expert because they've got the
results
backed and also they've got a process to
help you
solve your problem yeah and i guess it's
quite easy to digest as well whether
you're just
winging it every time and it's every
time it's a bit different so people can
tell you're a bit shaky and perhaps not
as confident so
yeah i get that okay let's take it to
the to the final t
before the final key of the truth
framework is
tell stories that handle
objections now sam think about like this
okay let's say you deliver a seminar and
at the end i stick my hand up i'm like
sam dude listen
i love what you said bro but i can't
afford your services man like no way
like are you kidding me
you just wasted five hours of my time
now people
will struggle with different objections
the spoken ones and the unspoken ones
now
we need to think about here is writing
down
the spoken and unspoken objections that
you commonly get now we all know that in
the world of sales
right but how often have we actually
written it down and thought huh
looking at my last 100 sales calls
there's a pattern between
this this and that writing them down
then you want to think about how can you
authentically and organically
embed objection handling stories
throughout your presentation so once you
get to your call to action
there is little to no resistance on
people moving forward so i'll give an
example let's say if
one of the objections is is you cost too
much one of the things to think about is
throughout the presentation when you're
actually unleashing
your unique mechanism okay and you're
talking about the can
framework um which is what we just spoke
about earlier
so you could say for example you know in
the latter part of that framework
because it feels aligned to do so so
it's funny back in 2018
i was delivering a seminar in london and
this dude
wearing these green shoes burgundy
sue and green socks stands up he grabs
the mic from somebody my team stands up
and he's like uh rav yeah cool
presentation brother but i'll be honest
rav
i can't afford your services now what
you've done there is you've given the
audience context you're telling a story
okay given a bit of conflict as well
but now what we're doing is before we
move into the turning point and the
transformation of that story
there's something very subtle i've
specifically
given you the objection i've led with
the objection okay i'm not allowing you
to make it first
secondly i've mentioned my name in third
person
now why that's very very interesting is
is
people buy when they've rehearsed
something think about when you've made a
big purchase you rehearse
signing up you rehearse the anxiety that
you'll feel afterwards
you'll rehearse for example what it's
gonna feel like once you get the end
result
so by mentioning my name in third person
i'm future pacing you to having that
same conversation
in your mind then what i do is i talk
about the turning point
of this individual when he started
realizing and asked him a few questions
on stage that
actually he was losing tens of thousands
of dollars a year by not taking action
the transformation is
within 90 days he actually achieved xyz
whatever it could be
now i've not told you
by my product but what's interesting is
i've told you the transformation of
somebody who was once skeptical about
price and then came out on the other
side now here's
the very very important thing to think
about your
transformation of your story if somebody
says yeah and then they bought my
product and they made a million dollars
but
your call to action is actually a lead
magnet there's a misalignment
so the transformation of the story
should be aligned with the call to
action
at the end of the presentation okay if
you want somebody to
uh book a discovery call that's what the
transformation is if you want them to
um you know put money towards your
charity that's what the transformation
is ensure those two things are aligned
gotcha i can tell you uh well
i guess it's slightly relevant story um
because you said
many times we were rehearsed in our head
what's going to happen
so if we're perhaps thinking of i don't
know making a big purchase doing it
getting a car
yeah getting a house whatever it may be
there was this one snow probably about
three four years ago yeah me and my now
fiance were thinking about going
away on holiday oh congrats dude
fiance when are you getting married yeah
september
um dude i'm in october nice man
very very very close hopefully we don't
have the restrictions hopefully
everything's okay by now
because weddings are so frustrating in
the uk anyway that that's another convoy
we digress yeah
but congrats um yeah so we were thinking
about going to thailand anyway we're in
town we're near the travel agents
my fiance let's go in let's pop in let's
see what they've got for there
and uh we we'll we'll just have a look i
said okay but we're definitely not
buying anything
there's nowhere we're buying we need to
save money um she's like fine we won't
buy anything
sat down i started talking through the
the travel agent was asking kind of what
holiday you're looking at and she told
her why do you want to do it um
well we want um lauren my partner wants
to see the elephants
or wanted to and she said great
have you heard of this place called
elephant hills which if you haven't it's
epic in thailand it's basically a
three-day experience anyway
nice as she was telling us this i was
getting kind of i said at the start
we're definitely not buying but we might
come back if we
were interested yeah then she said
that's that's great well yeah we can do
this three-day experience down in hills
you can do these tours all this during
parts
thailand you can do this boat ride it's
a two-week adventure and by this time my
eyes were starting to light up i was
like
i'm still holding back then she played
this video and it literally showed you
this three-day kind of boat trip washing
elephants staying in this floating boat
house
like all these awesome experience
feeding the elephants so i was like
sold and i literally went from that
video
in that case that kind of went from
nowhere near to
completely sold that was completely
transformed
my opinion which i guess is what you're
talking about in terms of
kind of slightly handling objections
which i think is a great idea especially
when it comes to
ultimately if you're a solopreneur or if
you if you run your business or you just
got to chat to your sales team to
understand what are the objections they
get week in week out
number one's probably it's too expensive
what are the others that people
come to you with and then like you've
mentioned if you can tell come
some kind of story that links back to
how it actually transforms someone how
the product help that's relevant
it's powerful because you're handling it
before they can ever bring up as an
issue
and it's what's really powerful dude
which what you just mentioned
is you were sold
through the video now if you look at
neil fleming's vac model
people process information differently
so you've got the visuals the auditory
and the kinesthetic so inside of your
presentations
you know how can you create visuals
images videos
auditory you speaking can aesthetic get
people to do breakout rooms activities
because
people no i could have watched that sam
that video and gone yes so what
then suddenly you get me to do an
activity of what are the five things you
actually want to do and i'm like oh my
god yeah i want to do
so it's really interesting how different
people will process information
differently in presentations which a lot
of people miss
are there where are we going at the time
but are there any other ways that we can
perhaps cover those bases so like you
said ravi everyone
enjoys to listen or consume content i
guess whether that's listening whether
that's watching whether that's actually
doing
because i suppose we're limited
especially if we're doing something over
zoom skype whatever it may be
and kind of how we can cover those other
bases and kind of
get people engaged on that level if that
makes sense
yeah dude i mean like some of the stuff
i just mentioned before i go into the
final part of the framework yeah for
example
images videos but not enough people show
videos and short ones because people
don't have time for four minutes right
sure video which no one cares about it's
you know do you have something less than
59 seconds
do you have great images do you have
statistics to really close the logically
minded that you can do through story
do you have activities that you can do
in breakout rooms can you give
other people the stage to become the
hero on
your stage i mean there's so many
different cool things you can do here
um but those are a few to think about
nice all right well let's hear the final
one to close things off with
so the final part of the truth framework
is having a contextual
call to action and what i mean by that
is i
i had a mentor last year a guy called
scott oldford really good guy look him
up really cool guy and
he spoke about something which is called
the ssf
method now what he talks about that is
that what he talks about is rather
is people's marketing should be
different
in accordance with where the customer is
in their buying journey so for example
are people on the sidewalk are they in
the slow lane or are they in the fast
lane
so in the sidewalk they don't even
necessarily know they've got a problem
they don't know who you
are they're just there right they're
just there to be educated they don't
have self-awareness around their problem
in the slow lane
it could be somebody who for example
knows they've got a problem maybe they
don't know how big it is
but also they're in the market for
taking a look at who can actually help
them solve it now the far saying is oh
my god sam i've watched your content
you know i want to understand more about
your unique mechanism i think you're the
right person to solve it there's a you
know two other people i'm looking at can
i book a call today
now you shouldn't have the same offer
at the end of your presentation to each
person for example
a product pitch for somebody who's on
the sidewalk will not convert
but to somebody if you've got 20 people
in your audience
who are already bought from you twice
before product pitch is great it would
be silly to say
oh and here's a lead magnet they're like
dude i want to buy from you i trust you
man so
think about for example on the sidewalk
it could be a lead magnet
on the slow lane it could be a discovery
call
and in the fast lane maybe it is a
product pitch and here's a bonus tip
if you don't want to leave your audience
with a sour taste in their mouth by
going ugh
sam and rav just pitched me that was
disgusting i feel like this was an
internet marketing webinar right
one thing you can do is end with story
now a tip here
is loop back to the story at the
beginning of your presentation so
if you're talking about going back to
the example i gave
of hiring that personal trainer to
reduce overwhelm
yep now at the end of the presentation
you can go
back to that story highlight it and then
talk about the transformation that you
received
by hiring a mentor as a result it
prompts them to take action
they don't have a sour taste in their
mouth and you've been able to tell an
open
uh you've been able to close that open
loop in your story
gotcha so is that the best way to
deliver the call to action
at the end ravi by looping back to the
story
or should we just be very direct in
terms of what we want people to do
whether that is some kind of lead magnet
whether that is
learning more whether it's taking a
actually buying the product
i once again i'm going to give you an
answer you probably don't want to hear
but it's high
it really depends i'll tell you why
because there's been times where
i will end with a specific call to
action of follow me on linkedin
or you know book a discovery called
there's been other times where for
example
i've not pitched at all because i'm
selling something but i'm selling trust
you're always selling something garyvee
will be like i'm not pitching at the end
well you you are you're selling trust
there right
so you're always selling something in
some way in my opinion but
think about for example what do my
audience need to hear
in this moment and what is gonna have
them take action don't ask somebody to
marry you on a first date that's the
problem which most of us do
right first date first presentation
nobody knows us boom product pitch
i mean we've got to think about it so
it's highly contextual
to the people you're talking to the
sales cycle
is it virtual is it in person have they
bought from you before so many factors
to think about
but those are examples of two frameworks
you could use
yeah i guess it's all about
understanding where your customers at
right now
and making it relevant 100 mate nice one
dude we'll just
quickly recap that true framework for
for us again um
so ladies and gents the truth
framework is transform attention into
connections
so stack the energy in the zoom room
through using the chat
function to then get their attention
once you've got their attention
use story to develop a connection then
we go to r
in the truth framework which is
revealing the villain
who is the antagonist that your audience
can get behind
before you unveil your solution
okay you which is unleash or unlock your
unique mechanism what is your
proprietary process
to take your audience from pain to glory
t
tell objection handling story so that
when you get to your call to action
there's little to no resistance
and then h have a compelling
or contextual call to action pitching
somebody a product
on day one of them following you on
linkedin will not result
in a conversion you need to develop a
connection
to then get a conversion later on down
the line and conversion today
could be them opting in for your email
list but conversion 100 days from now
could be them purchasing from you so
play the long game
very good sir very informative enjoyable
conversation ravi thanks very much for
coming on
do tell us more about how we can learn
from you how we can connect with you
and the best way to get in touch 100 man
i mean linkedin is where i
hang out the most man linkedin is where
i hang out the most so
connect with me on linkedin i'd love to
hear if there was a golden nugget that
you took away
from this podcast shoot me a note and
i'll drop you a video or a voice note
back
nice one ravi and we'll put all those
links to your linkedin
over at the site
businessgrowth.marketing and with that i
want to thank you once again sir really
enjoyed the chat today
if you enjoyed the show be sure to hit
subscribe be into business leaders each
and every week to share actionable tips
across marketing all to grow your
business to grow your sales revenue and
with that we'll catch you
on the next episode